**What cultural materials are you working with and why? What approach did you take (from scratch or auditing)?**
>> Working with the top popular TikTok videos from under the hashtags #Booktok & #DanceTok. I believe it’s interesting how TikTok was able to document not only its general viewer base, but various different communities within its general audience. Hashtags have been seeking distinct online media, and with TikTok, they established their own branding of hashtags, where people now refer to different online communities on TikTok as “___Tok”, with the first part being replaced with a niche or genre. Within these TikTok communities, I believe there is a lack of investigation on the way people engage with the content. For example, wouldn’t it make more sense that a video from #BookTok showing me the top books in 2026 has more saves than a video from #DanceTok with someone dancing to a trending song? This dataset takes a data collection and preparation approach, manually scraping qualitative TikTok data from commenters and creators. 

**What computational tools did you use to assist your work? How did they help? What were their limitations?**
>> I utilized the inspect tool to navigate the video interfaces in order to find the date posted and to confirm other logistical details about the videos selected. To store the data, I used Google Sheets in order to catagroize the data in an efficient, centralized way. The benefits of Google Sheets were that it allowed me to create data validations, which created customized rules to import the quantitative data, such as the number of comments, likes, and saves, quickly and consistly.  


**What decisions did you make about what to include, exclude, or how to categorize? Why? What challenges did you encounter? How did you address them?** 
>> Initially, I wanted to invegiate 5 TikTok hashtags as the platform has many diverse social spaces and onlyy analyzing theri nuber data of comments, likes, and shares. However, after discussing with the Professor, I decided to limit my scope on a smaller scale between 2 hashtags where I can not only collect quantitavtie data but also qualitative data, which better supports the investivation of the varying ways viewer engage with content within their online social spaces. This decision to shortern my scope helped me recognize patterens in the dataset while still observing two differing communites on TikTok. Addionally, some challneges that I encountered was creating the categories for numeric data. As videos constantly fluxuate in saves, likes, and comments, I didn't know wheater to mark the excat metrics down or create ranges for the metrics. Ultimately, I decided to create ranges such as Likes: 0 - 499; 500 - 1,999; 2,000 - 9,999; 10,000 - 49,999; 50,000 - 99,999; 100,000+. I used Google Sheet's data validation in order to create these data rules, which allowed me to keep the metric data distinct but also considerate of the changing level of likes, comments, and saves. However, the downside is that these ranges may not fully encapsulate the video's performance as spefically as I hoped for. One issue I face was having ot change the data ranges as some videos were exceptionally high metrics that make them an outlier, but would've been grouped with a video that didn't perform to the same level. 


**What patterns, questions, or tensions emerged from working closely with this data?**
>> Patterns I noticed were the difference between how videos under the hashtags #BookTok and #DanceTok performed in their comment sections. Both hashtags had Opinion/Reaction comments as the majority, but the videos under #BookTok were more versatile as there was a mixture of comments under all comment catagories providing advice, recommendations, and asking questions. Meanwhile, the videos under #DanceTok were almost exclusively comments sharing opinions and reactions, with the occasional question. Additionally, something that I notice admitabtly was the bais towards #DanceTok videos wihtin the algorithm as all major outliers in likes, saves, and comments were only videos under the #DanceTok hashtag having 5 virsal videos in total. 
